And welcome back.
In this section, we're talking about
some more advanced object oriented principles.
So I've created this sample project here,
called Advanced OOP,
just a small project
where we're gonna create a few files
to explain a couple of these concepts.
There are two files in here right now.
We've got user.py,
and in this file, all we have
is a short class
that represents a user.
So you've got an init method,
fixing a username and a password
and sort of sets them as the properties
of the object you've created,
and then it has two other methods.
A login methods, just returns that you've logged in.
Potentially this should do something like
check a database, compare
the password that you've given
with the password in the database,
or something like that,
and it's got a repr method.
Fairly normal class, you know,
you'll create things like these
all the time in your project,
and then we've got an admin.py class,
and this inherits from user.
So it takes in all of the methods of the user,
and then what we've got is on another init method
in this admin class,
it takes in a username, a password,
and an access level,
and then that calls the user's init
and sets the access level property.
Potentially this access level could be something like
superuser or manager or something like that,
different levels of admin privilege.
Then the repr method here has the admin,
username, and the access,
and finally it also includes a to_dict method,
which returns a dictionary representation
of this admin object.
So it returns the username as self.username,
password as self.password,
and access, self.access.
Just returns a dictionary and using this dictionary,
we could recreate the object.
So this is similar to, for example,
if you wanted to save this to a database,
you would just take each of the properties
in this dictionary,
you could put them in a database, for example.
Now, let's say that we do want to create
some sort of database.
I'm gonna create an in memory database file,
call it database.py,
and just code it live in front of you,
because I think this is an interesting thing to go through.
In creating this database,
we're then going to use it
to explain how multiple inheritance works.
So I'm gonna create this class database,
and the database class is going to
have a class variable called content,
and a class variable is just a variable that exists
within the class as opposed to within the object,
so you can access this as database.content,
and it will always give you this dictionary.
Then we're gonna have a couple of methods,
a couple of class methods,
insert, that is gonna take in some data,
and is going to insert it into
database.content('users').append(data).
So again, database.content is this dictionary here,
and all we're doing is we're appending to the user's list
whatever data we received
in the insert method.
Because this is a class method
we can of course replace database
by cls, since cls and database are the same thing.
Then we're gonna have another class method
that is gonna be remove,
and this is going to take in a finder function
and all it's going to do is it's going to do
cls.content('users') equal user for user
in cls.content('users')
if not finder(user).
Pretty, you know, standard way
of removing something from a list.
Do a list comprehension,
and put all the elements of that list into a new list
for as long as they don't match this finder function.
So the finder function potentially
could be something like lambda x, x username
is not Rolf.
So this could be the finder function,
and then if it doesn't match that,
we will remove it.
Finally, just for completeness,
and because of course we will need this,
let's add a final class method,
which is gonna be a find.
Okay, and this is gonna return
user for user in cls.content('users')
if finder(user).
So this time it's gonna find all the users that match
the lambda function.
So again lambda x,
x username
is Rolf,
this is gonna find all the users in the database
that do match this lambda function,
so it's gonna find all the users
that have username of Rolf.
Okay.
This is our sample database.
So, when we import this class,
it's going to initialise this content variable,
and then we can insert, remove, or find data
within this class variable there.
Notice that if we create multiple objects
of type database,
they're all going to have the same content variable.
This variable is a class variable,
it's not an instance variable,
so it doesn't change per object,
all objects have the same instance variable.
So, going back to our admin.py,
let's say we want to insert this into our database.
What could we do?
Well, we could say something like save,
and then do something like database.insert(self.to_dict()).
And we'll have to import database as well.
Okay, this is the save method
implemented into our admin.
Now if we created another file, let's call it app.py,
and we want it to test this out
as the admin out
by creating an object and then saving it
to the database, and then maybe finding it back,
we could do that.
We can import the admin class,
say that a is an admin,
rolf and, one two three four,
and the access level's gonna be, let's say three.
Then we can do a.save,
and then we can do print(Database.find(lambda x:
x('username') is 'rolf')).
We'll of course have to import database as well.
Okay, let's run app.py.
And as you can see we get back
what you'd expect.
The result of this database.find.
So that's well and good.
What if
we wanted to create another thing
that we could save to the database?
Let's say for example we wanted to create
something like a store.py.
This is gonna be some class store,
and it's gonna have all its stuff,
and then it's gonna have a to_dict,
and that is gonna do something,
and it's gonna have a save,
and that is gonna do
database.insert(self.to_dict()).
As you can see,
we've got some duplication between admin and store.
There is one thing that is fully duplicated,
and one thing that is partially duplicated.
The one thing that's fully duplicated,
and the thing we are going to solve in this video,
is this save method.
The save method is fully duplicated between admin and store.
So as you can see,
you've got this save,
and it's database.insert(self.to_dict()),
and in the store you've got exactly the same thing.
Def save, Database.insert(self.to_dict()).
So in both cases the save method,
all it's doing, is it's taking the current object,
whatever object you're talking about,
be it a store, or an admin,
it's converting it to a dictionary
using its to_dict method,
and then it's putting it into the database.
Same thing, same code.
The thing that's partially duplicated
is this to_dict method.
As you can see, both admin and store
have a to_dict method,
but the implementation of the method, what it does,
is different between both.
The store here will probably return,
I don't know, what items are in it,
or the name of the store,
or the address, et cetera.
The admin is returning the username,
password, and the access level.
But as you can see, they both have a to_dict.
So throughout the next section
we're going to learn these techniques
that are going to allow us to reduce this duplication,
and also improve the stability
and the consistency of our programmes.
In order to solve this save problem,
we could do, of course, one thing.
The first thing we could do is we could cut it from there.
If we wanted to remove it from the admin class,
we could put it into user, right?
Now of course we'll have to import database from here,
in order to make that work,
but the truth is the store does not inherit from user,
so it's not going to have
that to_dict method available.
I'm sorry, that save method available.
So we don't want to do that.
What we want to do is have a third class,
or rather a fourth class,
that contains this save method only.
So I'm gonna go and do just that,
I'm gonna create a new Python file,
I'm gonna call it saveable.py,
and there's a reason why I'm calling it saveable.py,
as I'll explain later on in the course,
and this is gonna be some class saveable,
and all it's going to do
is it's going to implement this method.
So we have to import that.
Notice how it says,
I don't know what a to_dict method is,
because we don't have it defined inside this class,
and we are going to fix this
later on in this section,
but for now, all we need
is to go over to admin.
No longer need to import database here,
but from saveable, import saveable,
and now after user,
include saveable there,
now we no longer need to import database,
we don't need a save method there.
Remember, inheritance is very similar
to copying the code and putting it into this class,
so as soon as you inherit from both user and saveable,
all that Python does is
when you call a method, like self.save,
it goes to user, tries to find that method,
and if it doesn't exist in user,
then it goes to saveable, and it tries to find it there.
So it's gonna find self.save
inside this superclass,
and it's gonna call it,
but it's gonna be able to find self.to_dict
in the admin class.
So again,
self.save will be searched in admin,
then in user,
then in saveable.
Where it will be found.
Self.save uses self.to_dict,
and again self.to_dict will be searched for in admin,
where it will be found.
And that's it.
So there's a tree of,
of sort of method calls that happens
when you have inheritance,
and that's the first class that you inherit from,
the one on the left is, well, of course,
the class you're in is the first one that gets searched,
and then the one at the left,
and then the one next to it, and so forth.
So by using multiple inheritance like this,
you can actually extract functionality
that is shared amongst similar objects,
and similar classes, like user to admin,
but then also between more abstract classes,
like saveable class isn't a user,
it could be anything in your application.
So you can extract specific bits of functionality
into a class like this one.
Of course it's not great,
because you've got this unresolved attribute reference,
so we're going to look at how to fix this very soon.
Again, if you run app.py,
you'll see that it all works fine,
it doesn't complain, it doesn't give you an error,
because exactly what I said earlier is what's happening.
The save method is in saveable,
the to_dict method is in admin,
and they all sort of work together.
That's it for this video,
I wanted to give you a quick intro
to multiple inheritance,
and I'll see you on the next one.